In this lesson we will take a step back and look at a bird's eye view of the code that makes up a web
page.
In previous lessons we've been simplifying things a bit by only examining actual content.
So things like headings and paragraphs and bulleted lists in this lesson will learn that there's more
to a web page.
There's things that take place behind the scenes or under the hood that's enough speaking for now.
Let's start looking at a bit of code.
Here we are in a text editor with a blank canvas.
The first thing I'm going to do is create the h t M-L element when we discuss h HTML document structure
everything essentially begins and ends with the H UML element.
If you recall the Russian stocking doll analogy.
Every web page that you ever create will always have this HMO element as the root ancestor.
This is always going to be the root of our document.
The root of our Web page within this element we want to create two additional elements.
The first is head and the second is body.
In previous lessons we've only dealt with things like content headings paragraphs lists content goes
inside the body element.
So for example we can include the header here that says sample page and then we can include a brief
paragraph with only one sentence here.
So if I save and refresh the browser we can see our content just like we've seen in previous lessons
.
So we already have a firm grasp on the body element.
It's where the content goes but what about the head element.
This is where we include information about our document about our page.
So for example let's give our page a title
let's just call this page example page.
So now if I save and if I go back to my browser I want you to pay attention to the tab label for this
page.
If I refresh you can see it then says example page.
So the title of your document the title of your page is very important and things like that go in the
head element.
Another example of something that we would include in the head element is the character encoding information
or the character set.
So medder character set equals UTF 8.
Now this may not make sense at first glance it may not be the most intuitive bit of code but essentially
we're just telling the web browser what set of characters we want to have access to on our page.
Most of the pages that I create or for English speaking audiences so I use the UTF 8 character set.
But if you're using a language that has vastly different characters you would likely need to use a different
character set.
I will include a link in the description for this lesson where you can find a list of all of the major
character set options.
A quick side note.
This marks the first time that you've seen an h m l attribute.
In other words this is the first time you've seen the equal sign in quotes and then a value.
And this is not something we've done before in the course.
So if this line of code does not make sense you are A-OK that's fine.
This is something that we're going to review in our very next lesson.
The concept of assigning an attribute to an element but for now please ignore this line of code and
let's stay focused on the topic at hand.
HVM.
Document structure.
We are nearly complete.
There is one final cherry on top that we need to add and it's actually a very important cherry. so up
at the very top line of our code we're going to type less than symbol exclamation and then doc type
in all caps and then HTHML and then the greater than symbol to close out this tag.
This line of code is simply telling the web browser that we would like to use modern code modern HMO
HMO has a storied history and has gone through different iterations and this code is just laying the
web browser know that it's OK to use the most recent version of the HTML language and that's actually
going to bring this lesson to a close.
We now have a valid HTL document that will run properly in all modern web browsers.
Now I must admit that this is probably one of the least exciting lessons in the entire course but at
the same time it's also one of the most important.
This is the basic template the basic skeleton that all of your web pages will use in our next lesson
.
We'll head back to where the fun takes place.
The body element will learn how to add a link that you can click on.
That would take you from one page to another.
So we'll create a mini website of sorts.
I think it's going to be a lot of fun because linking is really the essence of the entire web.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.